MTG content removal and overhauling part 1 (#81)
minetest/dev.luanti.org: content/mapgen/_index.md

aliases:
- "/Map_generator"
- "/Map-Database"
- "/Mapgen"
bookCollapseSection: true
---

# Map generator

The **map generator** (“mapgen” for short) is the Luanti component that procedurally generates the world around the player.

> The Luanti engine provides several built-in map generators implemented in C++. It is possible to choose between them when creating a world. Most of them are based on Perlin noises, functions which allow associating to each point a random yet consistent value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Luanti engine provides several built-in map generators implemented in C++. It is possible to choose between them when creating a world. Most of them are based on Perlin noises: functions which allow associating to each point a random yet consistent value.
```

> In addition to this you can also [write your own mapgen in Lua](/mapgen/custom-lua-mapgen), based on the `singlenode` built-in map generator that generates an empty world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you can [write your own mapgen in Lua](/mapgen/custom-lua-mapgen), based on the `singlenode` built-in map generator that generates an empty world.
```

Reviewer: The `custom-lua-mapgen` page says these are "usually" based on the `singlenode` built-in map generator. Can we keep these consistent? It may be the other page that needs to be fixed - I'd be fine with a separate PR.

Reviewer 2: The formulation in the custom-lua-mapgen page would be the one that should be corrected - doesn't really make sense to make a custom mapgen with any other mapgen than `singlenode` (I was the one who wrote the "usually" there, and can't remember why I did that).

## Overview

These are the available mapgens described in brief:

> *   `v5`: Unrealistic yet interesting landscape with frequent floating blobs and extreme terrain overhangs, and deep oceans. The weirdness has an appeal to some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   `v5`: Unrealistic yet interesting landscape with frequent floating blobs, extreme terrain overhangs, and deep oceans. The weirdness has an appeal to some
```

*   `valleys`: Many hills, mountains and valleys containing river water flowing downhill
*   `flat`: A perfectly flat world, but with caves, biomes and decorations
*   `fractal`: Map is based on a fractal of your choice; highly configurable
*   `singlenode`: Empty world, used to implement custom map generators in Lua

All map generators use so-called "mapgen aliases". These are node aliases defined by games to choose some basic nodes used by the mapgen. This includes stone (`mapgen_stone`), water source (`mapgen_water_source`) and river water source (`mapgen_river_water_source`). Most other nodes used by the mapgen are specified via the Biome API instead. The exception is `v6`, where all nodes are defined using mapgen aliases.

All map generators have biomes. In all map generators except `v6`, these biomes are defined by games and mods using the Biome API. If no biomes are defined, the result will be a stone-only landscape. The `v6` map generator is special because its biomes are completely predefined and can't be changed trivially.

> Also, all map generators allow for a lot of configuration in the advanced settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All map generators allow configuration in the advanced settings.
```

### Gallery

Here are examples of landscapes generated with the different map generators:

*   `v5` in Minetest Game

>     [![](/images/mapgen/Mapgen_v5.jpg)](/images/mapgen/Mapgen_v5.jpg)

Reviewer 3: Is this the right way to format links? Can't we just do:

```suggestion
    ![](/images/mapgen/Mapgen_v5.jpg)
```

I guess the original way of doing things allows users to click on the image to be taken to the image, but I'm not sure.

Not a blocker from me though, feel free to merge

Reviewer 2: I believe this is just a bit of a blemish from the way wikitext gets converted to markdown. I'm unsure what we should decide upon, if we want clickable links then this should be done in a way that can be reusable across all images on the site (and that can include captions, floating them to the right and such like the MediaWiki image functionality).

Author: Yeah, the image is nested in a link so you can click it to open. This is also done on other pages. I think it would make sense to adjust the template so that all images get links to open them, and then remove those from the markdown source.

In this PR, I think they should stay since they're useful.
